NSLS Console User's Guide

0. Introduction

The NSLS Console is used to view events that occur in the NISGS.  It can be
used in a playback mode or in a live mode.  In playback mode events of interest
are displayed that match specified filters.  In live mode events are displayed
as they occur.  Filters may also be specified when in live mode.

From top to bottom, the NSLS Console contains a menu bar, event listing, event
panel or filters panel (or neither), and status bar.

00. Command Line Arguments.

The NSLS Console takes the following command line arguments.

  host:port
  
     A NSLS Server address to automatically connect to (optional).

1. Menu Bar

1.1. File

1.1.1. Connect...

Displays a dialog in which the NSLS Server to connect to may be specified.

1.1.2. Disconnect

Disconnects from the current NSLS Server.

1.1.3. Exit

Exits the NSLS Console.

1.2. Help

1.2.1. About NSLS...

Displays a dialog showing the version numbers of the NSLS Console and Server.

1.3. UTC Clock

Displays the UTC time of the machine the NSLS Console is running on.

2. Event Listing

The event listing displays NISGS events one per line.  Clicking on one of the
events will cause the details for that event to be displayed in the event panel
(possibly replacing the filters panel).

2.1. Details indicator

The first column (which doesn't have a heading) will contain an indicator when
the details for that event are being shown in the event panel.

2.2. Date/Time

The UTC date/time when the event occurred (using the clock on the machine the
event occurred on).

2.3. Host/Source

The machine the event occurred on and the NISGS subsystem that generated the
event.

2.4. Summary

A text summary of the event.

2.5. Start Live Mode Button

Starts live mode.

2.6. Stop Live Mode Button

Stops live mode (entering play mode).

2.7. Filters Panel Button

Displays the filters panel (possibly replacing the event panel).  The filters
panel button will "blick" when filters are being applied but the filters panel
is not being displayed.

2.8. Erase Listing Button

Erases the current event listing.

2.9. Toggle Auto-Scroll Button

Toggles whether or not the event listing automatically scrolls as new events
are received.

3. Filters Panel

The filters panel is used to specify event filters used in both playback and
live mode.  For an event to be displayed it must pass each filter selected.
For some types of filter multiple instances may be specified.  If so, an event
must pass each instance to be displayed.  Each filter contains a "Not" checkbox
which, if selected, causes the negation of the filter to be applied.  Each
filter also contains a delete button which deletes the filter so that it is no
longer applied.

3.1. Level Filter Button

Displays a level filter.

3.2. Source Filter Button

Displays a source filter.

3.3. Date/Time Filter Button

Displays a date/time filter.

3.4. Text Filter Button

Displays a text filter.

3.5. Close Filter Panel Button

Closes the filter panel.  Note that this does not delete the filters.

3.6. Count Filter

The count filter is always present and specifies the maximum number of events
that may be displayed in the event listing before the oldest events are
discarded.

3.7. Level Filter

The level filter specifies the event severity of interest: informational,
warning, and/or error.

3.8. Source Filter

The source filter specifies the event source of interest: MMS, DSM, NCS, IS,
and/or SC.

3.9. Date/Time Filter

The date/time filter specifies the date/time range of interest.  A "Set To..."
drop-down is provided to conveniently select commonly used date/time ranges.

3.10. Text Filter

The text filter specifies a text string of interest.  The "Text Field Only"
checkbox specifies whether or not only the event's text field is considered
or the entire textual representation of the event.

4. Event Panel

The event panel displays the details of a selected event.

4.1. Previous Event Button

Displays the previous event's details in the event panel.

4.2. Next Event Button

Displays the next event's details in the event panel.

4.3. Save Event Button

Prompts for a file in which to save the event details.

4.4. Close Event Panel Button

Closes the event panel.

4.5. Level

The severity level of the event.

4.6. Date/time

The date/time the event occurred (on the machine it occurred on).

4.7. Source

The NISGS subsystem that generated the event.

4.8. Parameters

Parameters specific to the subsystem/event that further define the event.

4.9. Host

The machine that the event occurred on.

4.10. Thread

The Java thread that was executing when the event occurred.

4.11. Stack

The Java stack trace when the event occurred.

4.12. Throwable

The Java throwable (eg. exception) that triggered the event.  This only applies
to error-level events.

4.13. Text

Text generated by the subsystem to descibed the event.

5. Status Bar

The status bar indicates whether the current mode is playback or live as well
as the connection status to the NSLS Server.

5.1. Playback Mode

5.1.1. Play Button

Queries the NSLS Server for the events that pass the specified filters.

5.1.2. Stop Button

Stops a query in progress.

5.1.3. Status

Shows the status of the most recent playback query.

5.2. Live Mode

5.2.1. Status

Shows the number of events received since live mode was started (and the
number of event discarded because they failed a filter).

5.3. Connection Status

The NSLS Server currently connected to (or not).


